# ConsentCG Meeting 2021-10-27

Participants: (add yourself)

* Soheil Human
* Harshvardhan J. Pandit
* Aga Kitkowska
* Victor Morel
* Tek Raj Chhetri
* Anelia Kurteva
* Farzaneh Karegar
* Inah Omoronyia
* Beatriz Esteves
* Vitor Jesus
* Julian Flake
* Irene Kamara

Agenda: <https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-consent/2021Oct/0001.html>

```
Agenda:
17:00 — 17:30: Welcome and introduction
17:30 — 18:00: Group Mission and Objectives by Chairs
Break 
18:05 — 19:00: Discussion on Problems to Solve and Solutions to Create 
19:05 — 19:30: Next Steps
```

Notes:

* warm-up with round-table on issues & solutions
  * issues
    * inter-discplinary issues and harmony between law, tech, hci, ethics
    * mixing identity management / permissions with consent
    * integrating "privacy issues" in software development
    * existing consent techniques don't work
    * adapting consent solutions to industrial practices and at large scales
    * consent is not always "appropriate" to use and there are no other legal bases 
    * overload of information for consent
    * lack of accountability and control
    * lack of oversight and enforcement
    * annoying and manipulative dialogues
    * technology not being used to assist users
    * lack of 'open' standard on metadata/fields regarding consent and how this works in interactions/communications
  * solutions
    * making things work rather than "just showing"
    * technologies for compliance verification and notifications
    * reform channels e.g. ePrivacy regulation
    * lighten load on users e.g. via agents
    * 'open' standard on metadata/fields regarding consent
    * automate preference management  e.g. automate withdrawal via browser comms (e.g. HTTP headers)
* mission & objectives
* Discussion on Problems to Solve and Solutions to Create
  * relation to other groups --> there are overlaps, but hopefully no duplication
  * standardisation as a goal? --> as a CG, we should strive to produce authoritative outputs which then get promoted to or be fed into standardisation efforts
  * not just technology, but also integrate with other domains --> prior efforts have tried to do things only technologically and haven't worked well
  * rephrase "reference implementations" to "models & implementations" --> careful about phrasing because it doesn't include governance and other considerations
  * working in interdisciplinary has issues about "some voices being more prominent than others" ; the implementations have to be integrated implementations
  * term: "digital consent" --> why this specific phrasing?
  * we should take into account the whole ecosystem: do not antagonise businesses and make it busine-model-friendly (I'm not sure about this), make it easy for browsers etc to implement, definitely prioritise users' interests, prioritise HCI, regulation-friendly and co-designed with the legal community, etc
  * developing a report outlining solutions and feeding that back to lawmakers (ePR) and PrivacyCG
  * roles of stakeholders, necessity of having prominent browser makers as implementers, adopters, and supporters on board for traction
  * two ways to get this: legal obligation or market competition
* next steps
  * report on interdisciplinary narratives and solutions discussing consent ; due 6months MAR-22
  * specific implementations 
    * communication - signalling / ADPC
    * design - consenting interactions (having a language/vocab about functionality and controls)
  * meetings 
    * \~2 weeks ; chairs will circulate doodle to select regular meetings
* links shared in meeting
  * smashHit project <https://smashhit.eu/>
  * ADPC signalling specification <https://www.dataprotectioncontrol.org>
  * Kantara new draft on Consent Receipt — <https://kantarainitiative.org/confluence/display/WA/%28Proposed+to+WG%29+Consent+Receipt++v1.2x+Consent+Receipt+Information+Structure>
  * Consent Workshop 2021 <https://privacy-as-expected.org/consent2021/>