# Meeting Notes

Date: 15 MAR 2022
Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-consent/2022Mar/0000.html
Chair: Soheil

Attendees:
- Soheil Human
- Victor Morel
- Harshvardhan J. Pandit
- Peter Novitzky
- Arianna Rossi
- Marietje Botes
- Rigo Wenning
- Tom Jones
- Vitor Jesus
- Mark Lizar
- Salvatore D'Agostino

## Minutes
- updates on part 1: background and theories of consent
- ADPC news: website helper code to help with ADPC https://github.com/Data-Protection-Control/website-helper-software
- the script assists with generating the dialogue and working with ADPC
- plans are (by ADPC) to work more on this beyond a prototype and to provide drop-in code for Wordpress, Drupal, etc.
- proposal: identify use-cases and requirements, starting with simpler ones and building towards more complex
- proposal: use-cases in terms of issues with notice and consent

- suggestions on direction of work the CG should take
- vitor: 3 key use-cases: (1) anonymous (as in no account/state beyond tracking), fast, real-time browsing, (2a) mobile apps that, e.g., have consent tied to app permissions, with little visibility past an instalation point, (2b) IoT and anything lacking physical interfaces (including smart spaces) and, often, linked to an app, (3) specific cases wehre a workflow of notice-->review-->consent--> records-->...->revocation/withdrawal (this could grow in complexity up to a medical/healthcare use-case; often will involve creating accounts) ...
- vitor: a model of consent woudl be helpful: technical, individual/expectactional, legal, user; considering the expertise in this group, we could be bold and disruptive by offering approaches that are not conventional (ie, bring risks but that are informed and "calculated") -- an example is that art 13 can be taken with a grain of salt or relying an architecture on a set of conventions
- rigo: document + develop a vision for: how do you 'package consent'? Start collecting use-cases.
- marietjie: research on conceptual point of view
- Harsh: we need one motivating problem and one motivating solution that is the main goal with other approaches revolving around these. This is also the test whether we can reflect reality in terms of use-cases, issues, laws. 
- Soheil: we can be disruptive. To suggest to get rid of cookie banners and to organize consent in a better way. Wants to collect the use cases in the Overleaf. 
- Tom suggested to use a template for use cases. Harsh wants only 2 line description and what the problem is and what the group can do to resolve. Tom disagrees. Tom and Soheil will communicate over use cases and the template. Harsh suggests to use something simpler - the template from DPV that was proposed for use-cases at start of DPVCG was too burdensome to fill https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/wiki/Template_for_use-cases

