# Meeting Notes

Date: 29 MAR 2022
Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-consent/2022Mar/0000.html
Chair: Harsh

Attendees:
- Soheil Human
- Victor Morel
- Harshvardhan J. Pandit
- Peter Novitzky
- Rigo Wenning
- Vitor Jesus
- Mark Lizar
- Salvatore D'Agostino

## Minutes
- Use-cases shared by Soheil/Victor on the mailing list: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-consent/2022Mar/0000.html ; see internal mailing list for Overleaf project link for notes
    - Soheil: are supposed to represent the 'cycle' i.e. users, companies, authorities, etc. as well as processes e.g. request from server -> user-side -> response to server
    - Soheil: these are not only techno-centric, as one of the issues on the mailing list raised, but are considerate of above different perspectives
    - Victor presenting use-cases
- Use-case 1: Personal website / blog
    - x
- Use-case 2: E-commerce website
    - x
- Use-case 3: IoT
    - Rigo: How do you provide GDPR A.13 info? This is a long-standing problem. My approach would be to use a multi-modal interface, where the basis is not the 'token' e.g. server -> client, but which can be used to display comprehensive information. IF instead the system understands semantics, it can reduce the information required in context, e.g. not requiring a lot of text because it is implied/present through the semantics.
    - Vitor: There was a project exploring consent for/within Amazon Alexa (see Overleaf notes). This provides an important difference between UC1 and UC3 in terms of legal and other requirements. That is, users interact with a 'box' that doesn't have a screen, and does not show notices. The use-case was garbage collection managed by the City Council.
    - Rigo: necessity to have a 'framework' that assists in performing such information exchange (i.e. dynamically and contextually) for having notices or controlling consent, otherwise the result is still long notices dictated by lawyers
    - Vitor / Sal: Physical spaces e.g. CCTV have additional challenges
    - Mark: Defaults, e.g. DNT: 0 can be detrimental to 'consent' as a justification if they enable surveillance by default
- Soheil: any preferences for working on these use-cases
    - Vitor: IoT 
    - Sal: physical signs e.g. URLs, icons -> what is a "sufficient" notice?
    - Victor: IoT, but also showing ADPC can do something concretely on the web
    - Rigo: in 'controlled environments' e.g. school, they have mechanisms e.g. singing off on things, where consent tokens can be expensive in terms of experience and implementation; on the other side, the tokens can help with creating dynamic information and interfaces ;; The current use-cases are reflecting areas of technologies rather than "use-cases" - they are huge fields.
    - Peter: 'users' don't have full control of technologies and trust their technologies e.g. browsers. There is no ability to inspect it outside of that environment. E.g. people in a household being surveilled by someone who has technical knowledge of technologies with no mechanism for them to be alerted or inspect what is happening.
    - Rigo: we require 'simple, focused' use-cases
- Discussion on consent, IoT, capability, issues
- choosing/constructing a "fundamental use-case" to harmonise implementation ahead:
    - Harsh: summary of discussion: notice, technical comms, consenting, maintain state /control/manage, inspection
    - Sal/Mark: Notice & Notice Comprehension
    - Victor: something web-based
    - Rigo/Sal: no fundamental difference between IoT and web

Tasks:
- Victor and Vitor: will do formulate of the use-case and visualisation of approach e.g. structure / model / arch diagrams
- Sal/Mark will share work on notice & consent model
